So now let's talk about VPC Endpoint Policies.
So they look like this, and as the name indicates,
they are attached to VPC endpoints.
So in this example, we have a VPC endpoint policy
which is saying that anyone that accesses it,
so anyone because principal star that does a list bucket,
get bucket, or put objects, so three API calls,
is going to be authorized on the bucket itself
as well as any objects within the bucket.
That's the resources part.
And then the conditions is that the principal ARN
has to be that of a role named test role.
And the principal in the effect is allowed.
So meaning that this endpoint policy
is allowing a specific role to access it
and to do three kinds of operations on one specific bucket
and its objects.
So it's quite detailed.
And of course, the VPC endpoint policy will control
which principles can use the VPC endpoint
to access services.
Now these can be attached to both interface endpoints
and gateway endpoints.
And as seen in this example,
this restricts specific API calls on specific resources.
One thing to note is that it does not override
or replace identity based policies
or service specific policies.
So even if the VPC endpoint policy is allowing
this role to use the VPC endpoint
it does not mean that it's going to authorize the API call
on the target resource.
For this. we'll still need the IAM role,
or the policy or the resource based policy,
for example industry buckets, to authorize this call.
We'll see this in a second.
The benefit of it though is that we can control
from a network perspective
who can access our buckets privately.
Now, you should note that the AWS principle org ID condition
which is something that can come up in the exam,
can be used to restrict access only
within the organization, therefore,
guaranteeing that your VPC endpoint
is only used by accounts of your organization.
So let's take an example.
In this example, we have an SQS queue
and we wanna guarantee two things.
Number one, that it is accessible from within
our organization, and number two,
that it will be only accessed through the VPC endpoint.
So how do we do this?
Well, first of all, we have to attach an SQS resource policy
to our SQS queue.
And if we have a look at this resource policy,
we're saying that we allow anyone to send a message
and receive a message
as long as the target queue is the resource of the ARN
of the queue itself.
And then the conditions strings equal is saying
only if the source VPC endpoint
is the VPC endpoint from before then this is allowed.
Therefore, if a request comes to the queue on its own
without the VPC endpoint, it's going to be refused
because of that condition.
So here we have tightly linked the VPC endpoint
to the SQS queue, and then we can add a VPC endpoint policy
saying that the request are only allowed from anything
by anywhere to anyone as long as the account ID
that is making this request,
so the user belongs to an account ID, for example,
also belongs to an organization with a principle org ID
of 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and so on.
So this effectively guarantees that all member accounts
through this VPC endpoint can access my SQS queue
and do a send message and receive message.
Hopefully that makes sense into the power
of VPC endpoint policies.
So we'll see the authorization logic
in greater detail in a future section.
But just to give you an idea of how this works,
so say we have a VPC endpoint policy and an IAM user
then they're both going to be evaluated.
So if an IAM user makes a request from a VPC
through a VPC endpoint and then into, for example,
a resource and SQS queue whatever you want,
then first of all this VPC endpoint policy
must have an explicit allow.
Otherwise, the IAM user will not be able to go
through the VPC endpoints.
And then even if it's allowed in the VPC endpoint policy,
then you must have, for example,
on your IAM policy attached to your IAM user,
you must have an explicit allow and no explicit deny.
And of course, you must not have an explicit deny
on your VPC endpoint policy either.
So what I wanted to show you here,
is that they're both evaluated regardless,
is that even if the VPC endpoint policies allows it,
there is still protection at the IAM user level,
or the resource policy as we'll see right now.
So in this slightly more complicated use case
where we have a VPC endpoint policy,
a resource policy, for example, an S3 buckets policy,
as well as an identity based policy, for example,
an IAM role, then what happens?
Again, we need to be explicitly allowed
through the VPC endpoint policy.
There is no way around it.
And then the combination of resource policy
and identity based policy must give you an explicit allow
and no explicit deny.
So if the resource policy alone authorizes the IAM role,
that's perfect, or if the IAM role itself
has enough permissions to access the resource,
that's perfect as well as long as there is no explicit deny.
All right, so that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.